.Dd February 13, 2026
.Dt RADII 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm radii
.Nd install and manage hardware driver stacks
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm install
.Fl -auto-detect
.Nm
.Cm install
.Ar vendor Ns Oo : Ns Ar version Oc ...
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm remove
.Fl -all
.Nm
.Cm remove
.Ar vendor Ns Oo : Ns Ar version Oc ...
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm list
.Op Fl -available
.Op Fl -installed
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl -help
.Nm
.Fl -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility installs, removes, and queries hardware driver stacks for GPUs
and AI accelerators using packages available through the system’s
configured software repositories.
.Pp
Rather than invoking vendor-provided installer scripts,
.Nm
relies entirely on repository-managed packages.
This allows driver
components to be installed, upgraded, and removed using the same
mechanisms as the rest of the system, and ensures that driver updates
follow normal package management workflows.
.Pp
Drivers may be supplied by the base distribution or by additional
repositories configured by the administrator.
For example, a system
may use a hardware vendor repository alongside the distribution’s own
repositories, and
.Nm
will select drivers from whichever sources are enabled.
.Pp
The simplest way to install drivers is:
.Pp
.Dl Nm Li install --auto-detect
.Pp
In this mode,
.Nm
attempts to detect accelerator hardware present in the system and
installs the default driver stack for each detected device vendor.
.Pp
Hardware detection is performed on a best-effort basis.
Because
detection relies on available system information and known device
mappings, it may fail to recognize some devices or may produce
incomplete results in unusual configurations.
.Pp
Drivers may also be selected explicitly by specifying a vendor
identifier.
The
.Fl -force
option allows installation to proceed even if the detected hardware
does not appear to match the requested driver.
.Pp
Each driver stack is selected by a vendor identifier with an optional
version qualifier:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Ar vendor
selects the default version defined by the repositories.
The default
is chosen to provide a stable, consistent selection and is not
necessarily the newest available version.
.It
.Ar vendor : Ns Ar version
selects the specified version of the driver stack.
.It
.Ar vendor : Ns Cm latest
selects the most recent version currently available.
.El
.Pp
Examples of driver specifications include
.Ql nvidia ,
.Ql nvidia:590.44.01 ,
and
.Ql amdgpu:latest .
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
invokes the system package manager in its interactive mode.
The
package manager may prompt for confirmation before performing
transactions, such as installing or removing packages.
The
.Fl -batch
option may be used to suppress interactive prompts and assume
confirmation.
This is intended for unattended environments such as
automated provisioning, configuration management, or installation
scripts.
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width install
.It Cm install
Install one or more driver stacks.
If
.Fl -auto-detect
is specified,
.Nm
tries to detect GPU and accelerator hardware present in the system and
installs the default driver stack for each detected device vendor.
Otherwise, one or more explicit driver specifications must be given.
.It Cm remove
Remove installed driver stacks.
Either explicitly specified drivers,
or all managed drivers if
.Fl -all
is given.
.It Cm list
Display information about driver stacks.
If no options are given,
this shows drivers available from configured repositories.
The
.Fl -installed
option may be used to display installed drivers instead, or both
.Fl -available
and
.Fl -installed
may be specified to show both available and installed drivers.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
Option placement matters.
Global options must appear before the
command name.
Command options appear after the command they apply to.
.Ss Global Options
.Bl -tag -width "--verbose"
.It Fl -quiet
Suppress routine informational output; print only warnings and errors.
.It Fl -verbose
Increase informational output.
.It Fl -debug
Enable detailed diagnostic output intended for troubleshooting.
.It Fl -help
Display usage information and exit.
.It Fl -version
Print program version and exit.
.El
.Ss Install Options
.Bl -tag -width "--dry-run"
.It Fl -auto-detect
Automatically select drivers to install based on detected hardware.
Must not be combined with explicit driver arguments.
.It Fl -batch
Run non-interactively, assuming confirmation where required.
.It Fl -dry-run
Show what would be changed without modifying the system.
.It Fl -force
Proceed even if no compatible hardware was detected for the selected
driver stack, or other validation checks report potential issues.
.El
.Ss Remove Options
.Bl -tag -width "--dry-run"
.It Fl -all
Select for removal all installed driver stacks managed by
.Nm .
Must not be combined with explicit driver arguments.
.It Fl -batch
Run non-interactively, assuming confirmation where required.
.It Fl -dry-run
Show what would be changed without modifying the system.
.El
.Ss List Options
.Bl -tag -width "--installed"
.It Fl -available
Show driver stacks available from configured repositories.
This is
the default if no listing option is specified.
.It Fl -installed
Show driver stacks currently installed on the system.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Install drivers for detected hardware:
.Dl Nm Li install --auto-detect
.Pp
Install the default version of NVIDIA driver:
.Dl Nm Li install nvidia
.Pp
Install the default version of NVIDIA driver even if no compatible
NVIDIA hardware is detected:
.Dl Nm Li install --force nvidia
.Pp
Install a specific NVIDIA driver version:
.Dl Nm Li install nvidia:590.44.01
.Pp
Install multiple driver stacks:
.Dl Nm Li install nvidia amdgpu:latest
.Pp
Remove a specific driver:
.Dl Nm Li remove nvidia
.Dl Nm Li remove nvidia:590.44.01
.Pp
Remove all managed drivers:
.Dl Nm Li remove --all
.Pp
List available or installed drivers:
.Dl Nm Li list --available
.Dl Nm Li list --installed
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Mikolaj Izdebski Aq Mt mizdebsk@redhat.com
